README.md, before:

# Monitor temperature #

Monitor temperature from a sensor and display on a webpage.

Currently both the monitoring script and the webpage are in the same repository. This may change.

Inspired by https://github.com/Pyplate/rpi_temp_logger.

## Monitor Script ##

This script reads the temperature from a DS18B20 temperature sensor and two weather services (OpenWeatherMap and the Met Office) and stores all the information in a database.

### Requirements ###

+ SQLite
+ [pyowm](https://github.com/csparpa/pyowm)
+ [metoffer](https://github.com/sludgedesk/metoffer)
+ [w1thermsensor](https://github.com/timofurrer/w1thermsensor)

API keys are required for the [OpenWeatherMap API](https://openweathermap.org/api) and the MetOffice [Datapoint API](https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/datapoint).

### Setup ###

The `init-db` command in flask initialises a database in the `instance` directory of the webpage installation. See `schemal.sql` for the creation of the database. The web server will need to be able to read this file.

### Configuration ###

The configuration is done in `config.py`. This stores the API keys and the coordinates of the location for the weather.

The variables in `config.py` are:

+ `OWM_API_KEY`: The API key for OpenWeatherMap.
+ `DATAPOINT_API_KEY`: The API key for datapoint.
+ `COORDS`: The coordinates to use for the weather reporting, in decimal latitude/longitude.


## Web Page ## 

The web page shows the temperature on a graph using [Bokeh](https://bokeh.pydata.org/en/latest/). [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) is used to display the page.

Currently I have not written the code to integrate the code with servers other than apache, but flask is capable of integrating with others. See the flask deployment [docs](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/deploying/) for more information.

### Requirements ###

If the project is installed, the dependencies are set in `setup.py`.

+ [Bokeh](https://bokeh.pydata.org/en/latest/)
+ [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/)
+ [Flask-WTF](https://flask-wtf.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
+ [WTForms](https://wtforms.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

### Configuration ###

The `secret_key` configuration variable for flask needs to be set in a `config.py` file in the flask instance directory.

### Installation ###

The package is distributed as a package installable with pip. When the package us installed, the instance directory is `$INSTALL_PREFIX/var/instance`. This is described in the flask [docs](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/config/).

The integration with a server is dependent on the server. Different operating systems may also put server configuration files in different places.

Note that if the code is updated, the web server may need to be updated. This is the case for Apache.

#### Apache with mod_wsgi ####

The python code is written in python 3. `mod_wsgi` cannot run across python versions, so ensure that the version of mod_wsgi which supports python 3 is installed. The `mod_wsgi` [documentation](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/) contains instructions on how to install and set up `mod_wsgi`. As noted in the [docs](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/user-guides/virtual-environments.html) it is easier to use `mod_wsgi` with virtual environments if the environment is created using `virtualenv` rather than `venv`. This is because `virtualenv` includes an `activate_this.py` file. The flask [documentation](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/deploying/mod_wsgi/#working-with-virtual-environments) for using virtual environments with apache and `mod_wsgi` suggests how to use this in a `.wsgi` file. As far as I know, the path to the `activate_this.py` file must be hard coded. Note that the suggested form of a `.wsgi` file in the [example](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/user-guides/quick-configuration-guide.html) does not seem to work with this code. The `templog.wsgi` file is as follows:

```
python_home = '/path/to/venv'

activate_this = python_home + '/bin/activate_this.py'
exec(open(activate_this).read(), {'__file__': activate_this})

from webpage import create_app
application = create_app()
```

The `mod_wsgi` documentation describes how to set up a wsgi script with apache. The configuration I have used is below:
```
WSGIDaemonProcess templog threads=2 python-home=/path/to/empty/venv
WSGIScriptAlias / /path/to/wsgi_dir/templog.wsgi process-group=templog
WSGIProcessGroup templog

<Directory /path/to/wsgi_dir>
    <IfVersion < 2.4>
        Order allow,deny
        Allow from all
    </IfVersion>
    <IfVersion >= 2.4>
        Require all granted
    </IfVersion>
</Directory>
```

This configuration is in a `.conf` file, in a `VirtualHost` definition in apache installed on raspbian.

Note that for this code, `WSGIScriptAlias` seems to need to be `WSGIScriptAlias / /path/to/wsgi_dir/templog.wsgi`. This is not the case in the `mod_wsgi` example [here](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/user-guides/quick-configuration-guide.html).

Commit message:

Add hardware section to README

README.md, after:

# Monitor temperature #

Monitor temperature from a sensor and display on a webpage.

Currently both the monitoring script and the webpage are in the same repository. This may change.

Inspired by https://github.com/Pyplate/rpi_temp_logger.

## Monitor Script ##

This script reads the temperature from a DS18B20 temperature sensor and two weather services (OpenWeatherMap and the Met Office) and stores all the information in a database.

### Requirements ###

+ SQLite
+ [pyowm](https://github.com/csparpa/pyowm)
+ [metoffer](https://github.com/sludgedesk/metoffer)
+ [w1thermsensor](https://github.com/timofurrer/w1thermsensor)

API keys are required for the [OpenWeatherMap API](https://openweathermap.org/api) and the MetOffice [Datapoint API](https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/datapoint).

### Setup ###

The `init-db` command in flask initialises a database in the `instance` directory of the webpage installation. See `schemal.sql` for the creation of the database. The web server will need to be able to read this file.

### Configuration ###

The configuration is done in `config.py`. This stores the API keys and the coordinates of the location for the weather.

The variables in `config.py` are:

+ `OWM_API_KEY`: The API key for OpenWeatherMap.
+ `DATAPOINT_API_KEY`: The API key for datapoint.
+ `COORDS`: The coordinates to use for the weather reporting, in decimal latitude/longitude.

### Hardware ###

See, for instance, this [tutorial](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruits-raspberry-pi-lesson-11-ds18b20-temperature-sensing?view=all) from Adafruit for information on wiring up a DS18B20 sensor with a Raspberry Pi.


## Web Page ## 

The web page shows the temperature on a graph using [Bokeh](https://bokeh.pydata.org/en/latest/). [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) is used to display the page.

Currently I have not written the code to integrate the code with servers other than apache, but flask is capable of integrating with others. See the flask deployment [docs](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/deploying/) for more information.

### Requirements ###

If the project is installed, the dependencies are set in `setup.py`.

+ [Bokeh](https://bokeh.pydata.org/en/latest/)
+ [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/)
+ [Flask-WTF](https://flask-wtf.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
+ [WTForms](https://wtforms.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

### Configuration ###

The `secret_key` configuration variable for flask needs to be set in a `config.py` file in the flask instance directory.

### Installation ###

The package is distributed as a package installable with pip. When the package us installed, the instance directory is `$INSTALL_PREFIX/var/instance`. This is described in the flask [docs](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/config/).

The integration with a server is dependent on the server. Different operating systems may also put server configuration files in different places.

Note that if the code is updated, the web server may need to be updated. This is the case for Apache.

#### Apache with mod_wsgi ####

The python code is written in python 3. `mod_wsgi` cannot run across python versions, so ensure that the version of mod_wsgi which supports python 3 is installed. The `mod_wsgi` [documentation](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/) contains instructions on how to install and set up `mod_wsgi`. As noted in the [docs](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/user-guides/virtual-environments.html) it is easier to use `mod_wsgi` with virtual environments if the environment is created using `virtualenv` rather than `venv`. This is because `virtualenv` includes an `activate_this.py` file. The flask [documentation](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/deploying/mod_wsgi/#working-with-virtual-environments) for using virtual environments with apache and `mod_wsgi` suggests how to use this in a `.wsgi` file. As far as I know, the path to the `activate_this.py` file must be hard coded. Note that the suggested form of a `.wsgi` file in the [example](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/user-guides/quick-configuration-guide.html) does not seem to work with this code. The `templog.wsgi` file is as follows:

```
python_home = '/path/to/venv'

activate_this = python_home + '/bin/activate_this.py'
exec(open(activate_this).read(), {'__file__': activate_this})

from webpage import create_app
application = create_app()
```

The `mod_wsgi` documentation describes how to set up a wsgi script with apache. The configuration I have used is below:
```
WSGIDaemonProcess templog threads=2 python-home=/path/to/empty/venv
WSGIScriptAlias / /path/to/wsgi_dir/templog.wsgi process-group=templog
WSGIProcessGroup templog

<Directory /path/to/wsgi_dir>
    <IfVersion < 2.4>
        Order allow,deny
        Allow from all
    </IfVersion>
    <IfVersion >= 2.4>
        Require all granted
    </IfVersion>
</Directory>
```

This configuration is in a `.conf` file, in a `VirtualHost` definition in apache installed on raspbian.

Note that for this code, `WSGIScriptAlias` seems to need to be `WSGIScriptAlias / /path/to/wsgi_dir/templog.wsgi`. This is not the case in the `mod_wsgi` example [here](https://modwsgi.readthedocs.io/en/develop/user-guides/quick-configuration-guide.html).
